Privacy in the Age of AI: Navigating the Ethical Dimensions of Machine Learning

"In the age of AI, navigating the ethical dimensions of machine learning is a multifaceted endeavour that requires collaboration among technology developers, policymakers, ethicists, and society as a whole." - chatGPT

The topic of privacy in the future age of artificial intelligence is a deep and personal topic, that requires the thinker to delve deep into who they are as a person and what their own beliefs mean to them. The ethics behind a topic such as machine learning become more and more relevant as our society progresses alongside technology. The topics of job loss, mass societal regression and international ethical problems are all relevant when talking about the ethics of a future with resources such as machine learning and artificial intelligence

Ever since the 1950s where ML was thoroughly explored for the first time, it has had a pivotal role in developing our society. However these developments have not all been positive. Already, machine learning has taken an estimated 60 million jobs in the United States alone, and is predicted to take a further 25 million by 2025 (Forbes). This supplementing of jobs can be compared to events such as the industrial revolution, which was predicted to take 10s of millions of jobs around the world. Even though the industrial revolution was positive to society in the long run, we need to take a step back and look at the little guy, who has lost his job in the factory and can no longer support his family. It is for this reason that we cannot let ML dominate our society, and therefore restrictions must be placed on it for the short term ethical survival of our society. Due to the further reason that technological progress is exponential (medium), billions of jobs around the world could be lost, and due to the social and economic ethics of this situation, risks of mass strikes, protests and anti-technology movements. 

Another concern with the ethics behind machine learning and AI is the concept of software based life. If scientists were somehow able to create a lifeform that is powered by an artificial intelligence that is similar enough to replicating a human mind, there would be a colossal ethical debate surrounding that being, we would need to discuss if we would let the AI grow and develop unsupervised, thereby giving it privacy to create its own beliefs and morals. However if we were to let it go unchecked, it could morph or change into something dangerous to human life, demonstrated in countless sci-fi scenarios. Another thing that we would need to take into account over powerful AIs, is whether they would constitute the same ethical rights as 'regular' humans do. In the scenario that they do classify, according the the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, we would lose the ability to "turn it off", or force it to do certain things (article 3), or not give it access to the internet, which it is then free to use in its entirety (article 19). These 2 articles are some of the reasons that I feel we should not aim to replicate ourselves through technology, as if we do succeed, we would also lose all ethical control over it, which infinitely increases that chance that it turns itself into something that could end up destroying us.

The idea of ethics and privacy in the upcoming age where we will come to rely so deeply on AI and machine learning is a topic that will undoubtedly divide countries and people alike, requiring them to delve deep into their own personal ideologies. As these topics develop we risk mass consequences such as mass hob loss, societal uprising and ethical debates surrounding who we are.  

bibliography
https://www.forbes.com/sites/jackkelly/2020/10/27/us-lost-over-60-million-jobs-now-robots-tech-and-artificial-intelligence-will-take-millions-more/?sh=7d3917bd1a52

https://medium.com/@nivo0o0/when-exponential-technological-progress-becomes-our-reality-74acafd65e26#:~:text=Human%20perception%20is%20linear%2C%20technological,nowhere%20near%20the%20future%20ahead.

https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights

Link to Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LBtvTvnKZlU6STPujvH47T6EMl-jUtFOufG25CzTiGg/edit?usp=sharing
